Date: 17 November 2011
Categories: 
Summary: An article in which I reveal my true colors, both as a trekkie and as a developer.

# Star Trek's Lessons for Developers

I love Star Trek.

I love the sense of duty on the show, the wonderful working relationships between colleagues, the clarity of purpose and understanding of right and wrong. I love the messages of exploration and taking risk to expand knowledge. Most of all, I love the kindness of the show - the gentle nature of the narrative. What's more, I believe the lessons of Star Trek are totally applicable to developers these days.


### Lesson 1: Star Fleet Officers have a Sense of Duty and Purpose

As developers, we have more opportunity right now than we ever have in
the past. There are startups vying for tech talent left and right. But
why do we go to work every day? Should it always be about the money?
Star Fleet officers aren't even paid - Earth abandoned currency shortly
after Zephram Cochran invented warp drive. So why
do they do what they do? Because they believe in the mission. That's
what we need. We need to find a mission we believe in. Now, if your
mission is a big bunch of zeros on a paycheck, and you believe in that
mission, great. But for most of us the mission involves building cool stuff that will make
peoples' lives better. Will your tool do that? Do you really believe in
it? If not, it's probably time to make a change.

### Lesson 2: Star Fleet Officers Love and Support One Another

Who has your back? What would the people you work with do to support
you? Are you the maker or the tool? Are your contributions valued? Do
you value the contributions of your colleagues? Are they really your
kind of person? Is it a match made in heaven? It's worth looking for
people you can believe in, who also believe in you.

Also, us geeks need to stick together. Who's going to help you out when
your dilithium chrystals are fractured? 10 times out of 10, it's another
geek.

### Lesson 3: The Prime Directive, a clear division between right and wrong

I was once approached by a marketing company, back before I had really
broken into the industry. They said I was a perfect fit for their
current need, and they were going to offer me a pretty attractive
salary. One catch - I would have to work on the Phillip Morris account.
Yup, I would have to shill for cigarrettes. It was a hard choice - I
really needed a job - but I wouldn't do it. I turned them down. Building
websites advertizing cigarettes violated my prime directive. 
I'm not sure what the lesson is here, but
it's probably something trite like "don't comprimise your core beliefs."

### Lesson 4: Exploration - seeking out new life and new civilizations




### Lesson 5: Kindness, mercy, and bravery

