Date: December 30 2011
Category: design

# The Secret Lives of Web Fonts

The web fonts we know and love have a history that goes back to pieces
of metal pressing ink into paper. They have a context outside of this
digital realm that holds us captive. Here's a look at the history of
each of our favorite font stacks - starting with the serif, then
examining the sans-serif and the monospace.

### font-family: "Times New Roman", Times, serif

Times New Roman and Times Roman are the same font, originally cut for
the Times Newspaper by Monotype Corp. of England in 1932. The font was later
licensed by Linotype in the United States. In the 1945, Linotype
applied for a patent of the font in the US and received it. Because
Apple and Adobe license their fonts from Linotype, the Mac name of the
font is Times. Microsoft licenses its fonts from Monotype, so the name
of the font on windows is Times New Roman. As one can expect, there have
been many legal and industry battles regarding this state of affairs.

Times (New) Roman is implemented differently between the two operating
systems, but most characteristics are shared - Times is designed to be
legible at small sizes. Economy of space was important during the period
of its design. However, economy of space is seldom an issue on the
internet, so the narrow font width of Times is no longer as great an asset.
Additionally, the small x-height of Times makes it less legible on the
screen than it is on paper.

The Times (New) Roman font stack evokes the feel of a newspaper on the
page. It formats well in columns, but is no longer the most legible of
screen fonts. Interestingly, the [New York Times website's font-stack](http://css.nyt.com/css/0.1/screen/build/homepage/styles.css)
prefers Georgia to Times New Roman for body copy.

### font-family: Georgia, serif

Georgia was designed by Microsoft Corporation to be a serifed companion to
Verdana as part of the Core Fonts for the Web Project, which ran from
1996 to 2002. It borrows
heavily from Times (New) Roman, but has a significantly larger x-height,
which helps greatly with legibility on screen. Georgia is also available
on OSX in the same name - a rare occurence. It feels bookish and
established without being stuffy and
renders well at normal web reading sizes.

This blog is set entirely in Georgia as I feel that the font provides a nice 
reading experience on the screen without being distracting. I'm 
particularly fond of the italic, which I feel is one of the best of the web fonts.
In fact, on May 26 of 2011, Mathew Carter won a Lifetime Achievement
Award from the Smithsonian for the design of Georgia. Despite
Microsoft's current bad reputation with regards to Typography, 
largely due to the percieved bad font rendering
in Windows, Microsoft made significant contributions to web
typography through its Core Fonts for the Web Project.

### font-family: "Palatino Linotype", "Book Antiqua", Palatino, serif

The Palatino family was initially designed by Herman Zapf in 1950. Zapf
considers the Palatino family one of his crowning achievements - it has
received critical acclaim from multiple sources. The font
was originally designed for hot-metal type setting but was digitally reinterpreted
by Zapf himself in collaboration with Linotype in 2005. As part of the
update, the x-height of the font was increased to support better screen
legibility. The typeface is heavily influenced by Italian Rennaissance
letterforms, as is most of Zapf's work. The letter forms are humanist
and have a calligraphic feel.

As with most fonts, Palatino has its imitators, including Book Antiqua,
a font created originally by Monotype and later licensed by Microsoft.
The primary difference between the two fonts is seen in the italic: Book
Antiqua's italic is taller and narrower than Palatino's.

### font-family: Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif



### font-family: Arial Black, Gadget, sans-serif

### font-family: "Comic Sans MS", cursive, sans-serif

### font-family: Impact, Charcoal, sans-serif

### font-family: "Lucida Sans Unicode", "Lucida Grande", sans-serif

### font-family: Tahoma, Geneva, sans-serif

### font-family: "Trebuchet MS", Helvetica, sans-serif

### font-family: Verdana, Geneva, sans-serif

### font-family: "Courier New", Courier, monospace

### font-family: "Lucida Console", Monaco, monospace


### Research for this post and Further Reading:

I've added links to all of the articles and books consulted for this
article to a [Delicious bookmark list](http://www.delicious.com/stacks/view/Rn4uaf). I highly recommend the resources
included as further reading.
