Date: February 2, 2012
Categories: business


# Selling Without Selling

Over the past week, I've seen a few topics flying around twitter that
have been interesting to me as an introverted solopreneur:

* The extrovert-centric USA business culture
* Networking tips for introverts (this in an email from my mother)
* Silicon Valley's, and Asia's bias towards introverts

All of this got me thinking - if I wasn't an introvert, it is highly
unlikely that I would have been able to do what I've done in my life. My
degree in Music was gained as a direct result of long periods of solitary practice.
I became a programmer by spending long periods alone with my text
editor and technical documentation. 

###Being an introvert makes it easy for me to eschew time with others for long enough to become an expert at something.

So how does this have anything to do with selling? Well, networking and sales
have a traditional approach - scattershot. Networkers and salesmen spend
a short amount of time with each target, with the hope of making fortuitous
connections, or dazzeling with their elevator pitch. 
Introverts are notoriously bad at networking, and I
think it's for one main reason:

### Introverts think they need to be extroverts.

Introverts are totally fine the way they are. We need to, as a group,
start to challenge the idea that the extroverted way is better. It
isn't. It's just different. Introverts choose to have close associations
with a small number of people. They spend the time to really get to know
a few people. Even at networking events, we usually only meet a couple
of people, but we get to know them as well as we can. That's our form of networking. So how
should introverts sell their services and grow their businesses? 1 word:

### Referrals

Because introverts tend to really take the time to get to know the people they choose to do
business with, we can make our mark by going the extra mile with the
quality and value of our work, and give extra personal attention to our clients and contacts. 
By doing this, we create brand ambassadors for our personal brands. Some of these people, at least, will
be extroverts. And they'll go tell their friends about the great
developer/accountant/designer/yak-shaver that they know. When I need
more business, the first thing I do is ask my current and former clients, professional contacts, and friends for referrals.
Usually, they're happy to provide them.
