Date: 30 April 2010
Category: business

# The Mac App Store is an Underappreciated Channel

There has been a lot of discussion around the 'net about whether it is
better to sell mac apps on the app store or through your own website.
I've also heard grumblings about low sales numbers and Apple's 30% cut.
I think these concerns make sense for established Mac developers and mac
development houses.

For those of us just getting into the game of app development, however,
I think the App store is just flat-out amazing. The opportunities in the
space are huge, as the current store is really thin on the ground. Some
of the apps are awesome, but there just aren't that many yet.
Additionally, the price deflation that has hit the iOS store is yet to
hit the mac app store to the same degree. By filling in some of the
(very large) unfilled niches in the store, independent developers can
stand to make a usually decent (and sometimes obscene) amount of money.

Speaking of money, the app store relieves the developer of managing
their own sales and distribution system. I'm happy to give Apple 30% of
my revenue to get that taken care of. Managing servers isn't fun -
making software is fun! Apple is letting me spend more time coding, which is what
I want in the end, by relieving me of the burden of managing my own
sales. Additionally, by putting an app in the app store, I can garantee
that there will be eyeballs on the app. Macs are gaining market share,
so by writing for the platform, developers are making a pretty safe bet
at this point.

No big relevations in this post, but I think that for independent
developers, the Mac App Store is a killer opportunity. I'm certainly
planning on getting in on it!
