Date: 10 January 2011
Categories: books, learning
Summary: The authors of Pragmatic Thinking and Learning do an excellent job presenting a top-level overview of a broad range of topics in the fields of cognitive and learning sciences. Major topics include the Dreyfus Model of expertise, techniques to get in greater touch with your creative side.
Read More: Full Review

# Pragmatic Thinking and Learning

The authors of Pragmatic Thinking and Learning do an excellent job presenting a top-level overview of a broad range of topics in the fields of cognitive and learning sciences. Major topics include the Dreyfus Model of expertise, techniques to get in greater touch with your creative side (referred to in the text as R-Mode Flow) and ways to increase your retention rate of content studied. Additionally, the book asks you to identify your cognitive biases, and examines some of the more common logical fallacies and biases that rear their ugly heads in the workplace.

I found the most interesting of these to be the biases that we carry based on our generational affiliation. Being part of the millennial generation, I found some of the descriptions of problems between younger and older generations in the workplace both accurate and reaffirming – especially relating to different expectations regarding company loyalty and career path.

I’m particularly interested in trying some of the techniques from the book relating to more effective learning and thinking. Meditation, mind-mapping, morning pages, and blogging each hold their own appeal. Certain others would be the more difficult for me.  I find maintaining an exercise regimen to be nearly impossible due to the time commitments involved, but once current projects wind down I may be in a better place to make the effort.

I would suggest this book to any knowledge worker who needs a little help keeping things interesting at their job. I greatly enjoyed the insights I gained.